I used to take a certain amount of pride in my frugal traveling habits.  Okay...things haven't changed so much as the people with whom I travel and their willingness to sleep, well, anywhere.

Back in 1998, I had just finished my Master's degree and was going to give a talk in Bozeman on my research.  Since this was on my dime, I was again digging into student airfares courtesy of my American Express  card, which would only get me as far as Salt Lake City.  This worked out, though, as it enabled me to stop in Jackson and see some old friends that sill happened to be living there.  Always nice to have a road trip through the Tetons and Yellowstone, anyway.

The trip was spectacular.  My friends were living in a house on the near the elk refuge with a front porch that overlooked the Tetons.  Perfect sunsets that made you never want to leave.  But I did and I gave my speech, along with some friends from grad school that I would eventually lose touch with, unfortunately.

One the return trip, I took the Idaho side of the Tetons, which everyone should see if they ever get the chance.  It was getting late as I neared Salt Lake City.  My plans had been to camp north of the city somewhere, as the flight was fairly early the next morning.  In case I wasn't clear, though, I was very cheap.  I figured I could save a day of rental car fees if I returned the car that evening and just slept in the airport.  Naturally, the savings would go into my future children's college fund:)

Brilliant idea #2 was trying to check my bags the night before so I wouldn't have to worry about them all night while I crashed in the airport.  This was before baggage fees and 9/11.  The last flight out for the night on Delta was going back to Atlanta and there was one poor girl working the counter with a long line of testy customers trying to get checked in and make the flight.  I thought I would see if I could join them instead of just checking my bags.  

As I wasn't already booked on the flight, I was letting other passengers go ahead of me in the line, patiently waiting and letting her catch her breath.  When everyone else had gone, I asked if it might be possible to make the flight as well.  She furiously worked the 1970s era ticketing system until finally telling me, in the nicest way possible, that the doors were closing and there was no way I was going to be able to get on that flight.  I responded that, "It was no big deal.  I just thought it would be better than sleeping in the airport."  To which she said, "You're going to sleep in the airport? You should just come back to our house."  

Now, it would be easy to think the worst here, or at the very least to question motives.  Heck, I can't even imagine this happening, really, anywhere else.  Definitely not at the Atlanta airport.  But this is Salt Lake City.  And just to be entirely clear, this has nothing to do with Mormons.  It has everything to do with nice people.  

The exceedingly lovely ticket agent's husband was a Marine in Beirut and she was living with her family in the northern suburbs of SLC.  Myself, well, I hadn't showered in a couple of days, but I was very polite.  I took her up on the offer.

I waited for her to finish her shift and we headed back to her parent's house.  The apple didn't fall far from the tree.  Her father was Dan Dan the Maytag Man of Salt Lake City.  The family was gathered around the kitchen table playing Scripture Scrabble when we walked in.  For those of you that, like me, have never enjoyed this particular variation of Scrabble, it is no different from regular Scrabble except that the word has to be in the Book of Mormon for it to count.  Awesome.  Even better, they had only recently returned from papering someone's house, except, unlike where I grew up, they did it to friends as a fun joke and went later to help take it down.  Liking these people more and more.

So their daughter shows up with a dirty, scruffy stranger from the airport.  Instead of questioning her judgment, they welcomed me into their house.  In a display of hospitality that one rarely sees anymore, they fed me, showered me, and gave me a warm bed.  Then, Dan woke up early and drove me back to the airport first thing in the morning.  

This was hands down one of the nicest things someone has ever done for me.  Like many others in my generation, I was brought up to look at strangers with suspicion and caution, rather than look for opportunities to extend a helping hand.  I can only hope that I've been able to pay if forward even a little bit in the years since.
